This directory contains the C source code for MicroEMACS 3.7 .

MicroEMACS is an implementation of the EMACS text editor that was
written and placed in the public domain by Dave Conroy, circa 1985.
Daniel Lawrence subsequently extended it quite substantially,
creating the 3.x series of versions.

Version 3.7 is the last version that was released to the public domain.

Version 3.8 and subsequent versions are copyrighted by Daniel Lawrence.
3.11 is the latest version that I know of; it was relased in late 1991
or early 1992.  The copyrighted versions have been made available to
users under quite generous terms, but they cannot be incorporated into
commercial products.  That is the one of the reasons why version 3.7,
and not a more recent version, is included with Forthmacs.

Another reason is "creeping featurism".  Many of the later features
are, in my opinion, of marginal utility, and the size of the 3.11
distribution is much larger than the 3.7 distribution.  Some of the
new features (such as mouse support) are worthwhile, but the whole
package is just too big to deal with (some people may think the same
of Forthmacs!).

This copy of MicroEMACS 3.7 has been modified slightly.  A few of the
modifications are simple bug fixes.  The others are changes that were
necessary in order to make MicroEMACS callable from Forth, so that
you could go back and forth between Forth and MicroEMACS, without
losing either environment's state.  Primarily, this involved changes
in the initilization code and elimination of calls to "exit()" (they
now essentially do subroutine returns rather than process exits).

The other category of changes, limited to the ibmpc.c file, involved
making the video driver work under 32-bit protected mode.  This was
accomplished by using a far pointer to access the video memory.

I also changed the binding of the F1 function key in the emacs.rc
startup file, so it now executes the help function (DOS applications
commonly use F1 for help).

In this directory, MicroEMACS may be compiled either as a self-contained
application (EMACS.EXE) or as a component of Forth (a set of subroutines
linked into FORTH.EXE).  See the makefile in this directory for more
information.  The makefile is set up to compile with Zortech C++.  It
would be possible to compile the self-contained version of EMACS with
another C compiler, such as Microsoft C or Borland C.  However, the
"component of Forth" version must currently be compiled with Zortech C++,
since Forth requires the 32-bit code generation and DOS Extender features
of Zortech C++.
